Lets look at a fundamental diffrence that is neccesary to understand in order to fully comprehend floating point number. That is the idea of a fixed number.
A fixed number is similiar to a floating point numeber except it is represented to its fullest degree. 
This is to mean that as such it represents all numbers it can possibly hold before of after the decimal.

With this comes a notation that is used to represent all values that encompass a fixed number:

   i= u
x = Σ xi * 2^i
   i= n+1
   
In which x represents the number that is to represented, u represents the upper bound of a number, n+1 represents a lower bound, and xi represents each term in the number.
This idea is essential as it is fundamently the same concept when it comes to floating point.
It is important to note the n+1 as apposed to simply n to represnt the smallest possible digit. 
This is as one digit is usually left off in order to provide a number to round with.
n is usually described as the most significant digit that we cannot represent.

Moving on to the idea of floating point two new ideas are introduced that are not present in previous fixed point. 
This is the idea of scientific notation as well as precision(bits) that play a role in how a floating point number can be represented.
As such the notation reflects this:

       p-1
x = 2^e Σ xi * 2^(-i+e)
      i= 0
      
In which p represents precision.
Within this it is important to note the addition of a "2^e" this represnts the idea of an exponent allowing for a seemingly infinte number of representations of a 
number - two things to note are the 2 is present as opposed to the familiar 10 in scientific notation as we are working in binary. 
Additionally since their are infinate amount of represnetations, floating points have been noramlized in which the first "1" digit must be the only number 
before the decimal point (IEEE representationm - refrenced later).

All this is to represent the idea of how floating point numbers are fundamentaly similiar to the numbers we are familiar with, but 
require modifications to allow for them to be representable by computers.
Through computer limitations the idea of scientific notation is essential to store large as well as small numbers to make operations easier. 
But due to the precision brought up by this idea, the issue of floating point error will be bbrought up.
